you
by now I'm sure you know that in just
about anything you do in life you need
numbers in particular though some fields
don't just need a few numbers they need
lots of them how do you keep track of
all those numbers well
mathematicians dating back as early as
ancient China came up with a way to
represent arrays of many numbers at once
nowadays we call such an array a matrix
and many of them hanging out together
matrices matrices are everywhere they
are all around us even now in this very
room sorry let's get back on track
matrices really are everywhere though
they're used in business economics
cryptography physics electronics and
computer graphics one reason matrices
are so cool is that we can pack so much
information into them and then turn a
huge series of different problems into
one single problem so to use matrices we
need to learn how they work
it turns out you can treat matrices just
like regular numbers you can add them
subtract them even multiply them you
can't divide them but that's a rabbit
hole of its own
adding matrices is pretty simple all you
have to do is add the corresponding
entries in the order they come so the
first centuries get added together the
second entry is the third all the way
down of course your matrices have to be
the same size but that's pretty
intuitive anyway you can also multiply
the whole matrix by a number called a
scalar just multiply every entry by that
number but wait there's more
you can actually multiply one matrix by
another matrix it's not like adding them
though where you do it entry by entry
it's more unique and pretty cool once
you get the hang of it
here's how it works let's say you have
two matrices
let's make both of them two-by-two
meaning two rows by two columns right
the first matrix to the left and the
second Matrix goes next to it and
translate it up a bit kind of like we're
making a table the product we get when
we multiply the matrices together will
go right between them we'll also draw
some grid lines to help us along
now look at the first row of the first
matrix and the first column of the
second Matrix see how there's two
numbers in each multiply the first
number in the row by the first number in
the column one times two is two now do
the next ones three times three is nine
now add them up two plus nine is 11
let's put that number in the top left
position so that it matches up with the
rows and columns we use to get it see
how that works you can do the same thing
to get the other entries negative four
plus zero is negative four four plus
negative three is one negative eight
plus zero is negative eight so here's
your answer not all that bad is it
there's one catch though just like with
addition your matrices have to be the
right size look at these two matrices 2
times 8 is 16 3 times 4 is 12
3 times wait a minute there are no more
rows in the second Matrix we ran out of
room so these matrices can't be
multiplied the number of columns in the
first matrix has to be the same as the
number of rows in the second Matrix as
long as you're careful to match up your
dimensions right though it's pretty easy
understanding matrix multiplication is
just the beginning by the way there's so
much you can do with them for example
let's say you want to encrypt a secret
message let's say it's math rules though
why anybody would want to keep this a
secret is beyond me letting numbers
stand for letters you can put the
numbers in a matrix and then an
encryption key in another multiply them
together and you've got a new encoded
matrix the only way to decode the new
matrix and read the message is to have
the key that second matrix there's even
a branch of mathematics that uses
matrices constantly called
linear algebra if you ever get a chance
to study a linear algebra do it it's
pretty awesome but just remember once
you know how to use matrices you can do
pretty much anything
Oh